Anyone and everyone can write their own programs! If you've ever cooked 
following a recipe, you can program. If you've ever solved a puzzle, you can 
program. If you've ever played a game - you can program! Learn the basic 
concepts of computers, information processing, and modern programming 
languages from a pro and empower yourself with a set of problem solving tools 
you can apply to any situation. Students at all skill levels are welcome, though 
beginners will benefit most from this study. No experience is required other
than a strong desire to learn how to program.

Students will walk out of this workshop having learned many of the fundamental 
concepts of modern programming languages. They will gain a basic working 
knowledge of the Python programming language, and will take with them the mental 
framework needed to approach problems logically and atomically. Please note that 
this workshop is not about "building web sites" or using HTML or other markup 
languages or any other form of "front end design"; Python is best described as a 
"back end" technology and is all about how technology works "under the hood".

MacBooks with Mac OS 10.4 or greater or a Unix based computer are recommended, 
because they already come pre-installed with all the tools you need to get 
started programming immediately. If you are using a Windows PC you must install 
Python - this applies ONLY to Windows PCs. The self-installing Python version you
need to download can be found at this link:

http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2.msi

Next you will need to follow the instructions under the sections "Finding 
python.exe" and "Finding your script files", as written in the tutorial found 
here:

http://www.imladris.com/Scripts/PythonForWindows.html

The "Thinking Like A Programmer" workshop is regularly held at New Work City in
New York, New York. You can learn more about the NWC coworking space here:

http://nwc.co

You can also find more information about the class, including the presentation 
with slide notes and class notebook at the following links:

http://mikecap.squarespace.com/blog/2012/1/30/on-teaching-and-inspiration.html

http://mikecap.squarespace.com/storage/Thinking%20Like%20A%20Programmer.pdf

http://prezi.com/0sccgmctm16i/a-conceptual-history-of-computing/


Thank you!

Mike Caprio
mik3cap at gmail
@mik3cap
