Welcome to our hands-on, intensive, one day workshop. You will leave here 
today with all the technical tools and knowledge you need to read and write 
your own software!

IMPORTANT NOTES:

    1. This workshop is not about building websites.

    2. Register before 3:00p.m. the Friday before the workshop day. You must 
    register before then, no exceptions or walk-ins.

    3. You should bring an ID for building security to check on the workshop 
    day, as they will have a list of attendees.

You will soon understand the basic concepts of computers, information 
processing, and modern programming languages empower yourself with a set of 
problem solving tools you can apply to any situation. Students at all skill 
levels are welcome, though beginners will benefit most from this study. No 
experience is required other than a strong desire to learn how to program! 
Students will walk out of this workshop having learned the following:

    - The history of computers, from ancient to modern times

    - How a modern computer works, from hardware to software

    - Working with your computer's operating system using commands

    - Installing a package manager to install programming tools (Homebrew)

    - Programming language basics and using an interpreter

    - Creating programs using step-by-step outlines

    - Researching and reading documentation

    - Installing third party software libraries

    - A brief introduction to advanced programming concepts

Please note that this workshop is not about "building web sites" or using HTML 
or other markup languages or any other form of "front end design"; Python is 
best described as a "back end" technology and the workshop is all about how 
computers work "under the hood" with programming.

You must bring a laptop. In order to hit the ground running, we recommend 
fulfilling one of the following computer requirements:
 * A MacBook of any hardware specification running MacOS X, whatever the 
 latest version of the operating system is. (strongly recommended for people 
 with little or no knowledge of computers)

 * Any computer running a Unix-based operating system. (recommended for 
 people with more starting knowledge of computers)

Apple computers running the MacOS X operating system already have every 
software tool needed to start learning how to program right away! For the 
work we are doing in this workshop, you will also need to install something
called a package manager. The Homebrew package manager is only used with
MacOS X. The code editor we will be using, Sublime Text, is available in
both MacOS X and Windows.

The language we will be exploring is called Python. The version of Python
that everyone should be using is version 3 - version 2 is not going to be
supported in the future. Apple and Unix-based computers come pre-installed
with Python, but not necessarily the latest version of Python 3. Homebrew
will allow you to easily install your own version of Python on a MacBook
and it will be the latest and greatest. Windows computers do NOT come with
Python pre-installed.

Please arrive at 11:00a.m. sharp if you think you will need help with your 
laptop's setup!

PLEASE NOTE:  If you choose to use a Windows computer, you will not be able
to follow along with any of the open source UNIX command or package manager
instructions.

If you have a Windows PC, the self-installing Python version you need to
download can be found here:  https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/

Next you will need to follow the instructions appropriate for your Windows
OS version to set your Windows PATH or a whole bunch of other things - please
refer to the python.org website for further instructions.

Light and healthy refreshments will be served during the workshop, but please 
bring a bag lunch if you have any dietary restrictions, allergies, or other 
requirements - there will be a short break to eat lunch.

You can also find more information about this workshop in a blog post:

http://mikecapr.io/2012/01/30/on-teaching-and-inspiration/

and the presentation from the starting lecture is online here:

http://prezi.com/0sccgmctm16i/a-conceptual-history-of-computing/


Thank you!

Mike Caprio
mik3cap at gmail
@mik3caprio
